data-migration: add doc for migrate from mysql to tidb above tb (#7181)
pingcap/docs: data-migration/migrate-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md

---

> title: Migrate MySQL Data of More than 1 TiB to TiDB

Author: @sunzhaoyang What do you think? Is `TB 级以上` a general or specific description?
Note that we need to keep the description consistent across other data migration docs as well, e.g. https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/7202/files

> title: Migrate MySQL Data of More than 1 TiB to TiDB

Reviewer: I think we just want to express user should use different approach for different scale of source data:
- Large scale. dumpling+lightning -> dm (incremetal). This apporch is fast, but need more operations.
- Small scale. dm (batch + incremental). This approach is much slower, but easier to use.

IMHO, `1 TB`  is not a very good threshold here because I think we won't suggest user to only depend dm to migrate 999GB source data bacause this will cost at least 1day to finish migration. 
Users themselves will determine whether their data scale is large or small, either based on intuition or  the benchmark result.

No sure if we can use other word to deliver a more precise and understandable title.

summary: Learn how to migrate data above Terabytes from MySQL to TiDB.
---

# Migrate MySQL Data of More than 1 TiB to TiDB

When the data volume to be migrated is small, you can easily [use DM to migrate data](/data-migration/migrate-mysql-tidb-less-tb.md), both for full migration and incremental replication. However, because DM imports data at a slow speed (30~50 GiB/h), when the data volume is large, the migration might take a long time.

> This document describes how to migrate large volumes of data from MySQL to TiDB using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning. TiDB Lightning's local backend mode imports data at 500 GiB/h. After the full migration is completed, you can replicate the incremental data using DM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate large volumes of data from MySQL to TiDB using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning. TiDB Lightning's local backend mode can import data upto 500 GiB/h. After the full migration is completed, you can replicate the incremental data using DM.
```
500GiB/h is a ideal speed, the actual speed varies for different table schema and  cluster scale. 😅

## Prerequisites

- [Install DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).
- [Install Dumpling and TiDB Lightning](/migration-tools.md).

> - [Get the source database and target database privileges required for DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Grant the source database and target database required privileges for DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro).
```

    Make sure `${data-path}` has enough space to store the exported data. To prevent the import from being interrupted by a large table, it is strongly recommended to use the `-F` option to limit the size of a single file.

2. View the `metadata` file in the `${data-path}` directory. This is a Dumpling-generated metadata file. Record the binlog position information, which is required for the incremental replication in Step 3.

    ```
    SHOW MASTER STATUS:
    Log: mysql-bin.000004
    Pos: 109227
    GTID:
    ```

## Step 2. Import full data to TiDB

1. Create the `tidb-lightning.toml` configuration file:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```toml
    [lightning]
    # log.
    level = "info"
    file = "tidb-lightning.log"

    [tikv-importer]
    # "local": Default backend. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TiB or more). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.

>     # "tidb": The "tidb" backend is used to import data less than 1 TiB. During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For more information on the backends, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.

Reviewer 2: `The "tidb" backend is recommended to import less than few TiBs of data`

Reviewer: ？

    backend = "local"

>     # For better import performance, it is recommended to use a directory different from `data-source-dir` and use flash storage and exclusive I/O for the directory.

Reviewer 2: Translation of `设置排序的键值对的临时存放地址，目标路径需要是一个空目录，至少需要数据源最大单表的空间` is missing

>     # For better import performance, it is recommended to use a directory different from `data-source-dir` and use flash storage and exclusive I/O for the directory.

Reviewer 2: `For better import performance, it is recommended ....... and use flash storage, which can use I/O exclusively`

    # If you do not configure this item, TiDB Lightning reports a `cannot find schema` exception when it imports system tables.
    filter = ['*.*', '!mysql.*', '!sys.*', '!INFORMATION_SCHEMA.*', '!PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA.*', '!METRICS_SCHEMA.*', '!INSPECTION_SCHEMA.*']

    [tidb]
    # The target TiDB cluster information.
    host = ${host}                # e.g.: 172.16.32.1
    port = ${port}                # e.g.: 4000
    user = "${user_name}"         # e.g.: "root"
    password = "${password}"      # e.g.: "rootroot"
    status-port = ${status-port}  # Obtains the table schema information from TiDB status port, e.g.: 10080
    pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"     # The cluster PD address, e.g.: 172.16.31.3:2379. TiDB Lightning obtains some information from PD. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr correctly. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.
    ```

    For more information on TiDB Lightning configuration, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

> 2. Start the import by running `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program directly in the command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program using a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:

Reviewer 2: `the program might exit because of the SIGHUP signal` => `the process might exit unexpectedly after receiving a SIGHUP signal`

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
    ```

3. After TiDB Lightning completes the import, it exits automatically. If the import is successful, the last line of `tidb-lightning.log` prints `tidb lightning exit`.

If the import fails, refer to [TiDB Lightning FAQ](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md) for troubleshooting.

## Step 3. Replicate incremental data to TiDB

### Add the data source

1. Create a `source1.yaml` file as follows:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    # Configuration.
    source-id: "mysql-01" # Must be unique.

>     # Configures whether DM-worker uses the global transaction identifier (GTID) to pull binlogs. To enable this mode, the upstream MySQL must also enable GTID. If the upstream MySQL has automatic source-replica switching, GTID mode is required.

Reviewer 2: `If the upstream MySQL service is configured to switch master between different nodes automatically, GTID mode is required`

>     enable-gtid: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    enable-gtid: true
```
I think we'd betten enable this by default. We can also comment if GTID mode is not enabled, then user can fallback to disable this.  
As a example document, it's better to set the recommended config value we want our users to use.
/cc @sunzhaoyang @lance6716

    from:
      host: "${host}"           # e.g.: 172.16.10.81
      user: "root"

>       password: "${password}"   # Supports but not recommended to use plaintext password. It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.

Reviewer: Shall we add a doc link to `dmctl encrypt` command here? I'm not sure know is it possible.

      port: 3306
    ```

2. Load the data source configuration to the DM cluster using `tiup dmctl` by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} operate-source create source1.yaml
    ```

    The options used in the command above are described as follows:

    |Parameter              |Description    |
    |-                      |-              |
    |`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster that `dmctl` is connecting to, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
    |`operate-source create`|Load the data source to the DM cluster.|

### Add a replication task

1. Edit the `task.yaml` file. Configure the incremental replication mode and the starting point of each data source:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```yaml
    name: task-test                      # Task name. Must be globally unique.

>     task-mode: incremental               # Task mode. The "incremental" mode nly performs incremental data replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    task-mode: incremental               # Task mode. The "incremental" mode only performs incremental data replication.
```

    # Configures the target TiDB database.
    target-database:                     # The target database instance.
      host: "${host}"                    # e.g.: 127.0.0.1
      port: 4000
      user: "root"
      password: "${password}"            # It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.

    # Use block and allow lists to specify the tables to be replicated.

>     block-allow-list:                    # The collection of filtering rules that matches the tables in the source database instance. If the DM version is v2.0.0-beta.2 or earlier, use black-white-list instead.

Reviewer: I think we can remove the `If the DM version is v2.0.0-beta.2 or earlier, use black-white-list instead` here. I think there is no `v2.0.0-beta.2` dm in tiup.

>     block-allow-list:                    # The collection of filtering rules that matches the tables in the source database instance. If the DM version is v2.0.0-beta.2 or earlier, use black-white-list instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    block-allow-list:                    # The collection of filtering rules that matches the tables in the source database instance.
```

      bw-rule-1:                         # The block-allow-list configuration item ID.
        do-dbs: ["${db-name}"]           # Name of databases to be replicated.

    # Configures the data source.
    mysql-instances:
      - source-id: "mysql-01"            # Data source ID，i.e., source-id in source1.yaml
        block-allow-list: "bw-rule-1"    # References the block-allow-list configuration above.
        # syncer-config-name: "global"    # References the syncers incremental data configuration below.

>         meta:                            # When task-mode is "incremental" and the downstream database does not have a checkpoint, DM uses the binlog position as the starting point. If the downstream database has a checkpoint, DM uses the checkpoint as the starting point.

Reviewer 2: maybe `downstream` => `target` to unify the term

>           # binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"  # The binlog position recorded in Step 1. When the upstream database has source-replica switching, GTID mode is required.

Reviewer 2: `If the upstream database service is configured to switch master between different nodes automatically, GTID mode is required`

>           binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"  # The binlog position recorded in Step 1. When the upstream database has source-replica switching, GTID mode is required.

Reviewer: Also suggest we provide GITD mode setting by default. If there are still more users using position base replication, ignore this.

>           binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"  # The binlog position recorded in Step 1. When the upstream database has source-replica switching, GTID mode is required.
>           binlog-pos: 109227
>           # binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          # binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"  # The binlog position recorded in Step 1. When the upstream database has source-replica switching, GTID mode is required.
          # binlog-pos: 109227
          binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"
```

    If the task fails to start, check the prompt message and fix the configuration. After that, you can re-run the command above to start the task.

    If you encounter any problem, refer to [DM error handling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/error-handling) and [DM FAQ](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/faq).

### Check the migration task status

To learn whether the DM cluster has an ongoing migration task and view the task status, run the `query-status` command using `tiup dmctl`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} query-status ${task-name}
```

For a detailed interpretation of the results, refer to [Query Status](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/query-status).

### Monitor the task and view logs

To view the history status of the migration task and other internal metrics, take the following steps.

If you have deployed Prometheus, Alertmanager, and Grafana when you deployed DM using TiUP, you can access Grafana using the IP address and port specified during the deployment. You can then select DM dashboard to view DM-related monitoring metrics.

> When DM is running, DM-worker, DM-master, and dmctl output the related information in logs. The log directory of these components are as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
When DM is running, DM-worker, DM-master, and dmctl output the related information in logs. The log directories of these components are as follows:
```

This document describes how to migrate large volumes of data from MySQL to TiDB. This whole migration is divided into two processes:

1. *Full migration*. Dumpling and TiDB Lightning perform the full migraiton. TiDB Lightning's **local backend** mode can import data at a speed of up to 500 GiB/h.
2. *Incremental replication*. After the full migration is completed, you can replicate the incremental data using DM.

## Prerequisites

- [Install DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).
- [Install Dumpling and TiDB Lightning](/migration-tools.md).
- [Grant the source database and target database privileges required for DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro).
- [Grant the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database).
- [Grant the source database privileges required for Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#export-data-from-tidbmysql).

## Resource requirements

> **OS**: Examples in this document use new, clean CentOS 7 instances. You can deploy a virtual machine on your own host locally, or on a vendor-provided cloud platform. TiDB Lightning consumes as much CPU resources as needed by default, so it is recommended to deploy TiDB Lightning on a dedicated machine. If you cannot use a dedicated machine, you may deploy TiDB Lightning on a shared machine with other components (such as `tikv-server`) and limit TiDB Lightning's CPU usage by configuring `region-concurrency`. In the case of hybrid deployment, you can limit the CPU usage of TiDB Lightning to 75% of the number of logical CPUs.

Reviewer 4: 原文中最后两句话可以合并成一句，对用户更简单，不用再去想什么是混合部署。，中文那里我也留了 comment

/* Calculate the size of the largest table, in MiB. Replace ${schema_name} with your schema name. */
SELECT table_name,table_schema,SUM(data_length)/1024/1024 AS data_length,SUM(index_length)/1024/1024 AS index_length,SUM(data_length+index_length)/1024/1024 AS SUM from information_schema.tables WHERE table_schema = "${schema_name}" GROUP BY table_name,table_schema ORDER BY SUM DESC LIMIT 5;
```

### Disk space for the target TiKV cluster

The target TiKV cluster must have enough disk space to store the imported data. In addition to [the standard hardware requirements](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md), the storage space of the target TiKV cluster must be larger than **the size of the data source x [the number of replicas](/faq/deploy-and-maintain-faq.md#is-the-number-of-replicas-in-each-region-configurable-if-yes-how-to-configure-it) x 2**. For example, if the cluster uses 3 replicas by default, the target TiKV cluster must have a storage space 6 times the size of the data source. The formula has `x 2` because:

- Index might take extra space.
- RocksDB has a space amplification effect.

## Step 1. Export all data from MySQL

> 1. Export all data from MySQL by running the following command:

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/7480/commits/e4fab5382d16555c5c5585f397e17202742db89b

    The parameters used above are as follows. For more Dumpling parameters, refer to [Dumpling Overview](/dumpling-overview.md).

    |parameters             |Description|
    |-                      |-|
    |`-u` or `--user`       |MySQL user|
    |`-p` or `--password`   |MySQL user password|
    |`-P` or `--port`       |MySQL port|
    |`-h` or `--host`       |MySQL IP address|
    |`-t` or `--thread`     |The number of threads used for export|
    |`-o` or `--output`     |The directory that stores the exported file. Supports a local path or an [external storage URL](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md)|
    |`-r` or `--row`        |The maximum number of rows in a single file|
    |`-F`                   |The maximum size of a single file, in MiB|
    |-`B` or `--database`   |Specifies a database to be exported|
    |`-f` or `--filter`     |Exports tables that match the pattern. The syntax is the same as [table-filter](/table-filter.md). For example, `[\*.\*,!/^(mysql&#124;sys&#124;INFORMATION_SCHEMA&#124;PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA&#124;METRICS_SCHEMA&#124;INSPECTION_SCHEMA)$/.\*]` exports all tables except the system schema. |

>     Make sure `${data-path}` has enough space to store the exported data. To prevent the import from being interrupted by a large table consuming all the spaces, it is strongly recommended to use the `-F` option to limit the size of a single file.

Author: ```suggestion
    Make sure `${data-path}` has enough space to store the exported data. To prevent the export from being interrupted by a large table consuming all the spaces, it is strongly recommended to use the `-F` option to limit the size of a single file.
```

>     Make sure `${data-path}` has enough space to store the exported data. To prevent the import from being interrupted by a large table consuming all the spaces, it is strongly recommended to use the `-F` option to limit the size of a single file.

Author: Fixed.

    # If you do not configure this item, TiDB Lightning reports a `cannot find schema` exception when it imports system tables.
    filter = ['*.*', '!mysql.*', '!sys.*', '!INFORMATION_SCHEMA.*', '!PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA.*', '!METRICS_SCHEMA.*', '!INSPECTION_SCHEMA.*']

    [tidb]
    # The target TiDB cluster information.
    host = ${host}                # e.g.: 172.16.32.1
    port = ${port}                # e.g.: 4000
    user = "${user_name}"         # e.g.: "root"
    password = "${password}"      # e.g.: "rootroot"
    status-port = ${status-port}  # Obtains the table schema information from TiDB status port, e.g.: 10080
    pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"     # The cluster PD address, e.g.: 172.16.31.3:2379. TiDB Lightning obtains some information from PD. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr correctly. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.
    ```

    For more information on TiDB Lightning configuration, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

> 2. Start the import by running `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program directly in the command line, the process might exit unexpectedly after receiving a SIGHUP signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program using a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:

Reviewer 4: 这句的翻译建议和 https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/7147/files 中的保持一致。

> 2. Start the import by running `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program directly in the command line, the process might exit unexpectedly after receiving a SIGHUP signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program using a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:

Author: 原来是一致的，后来根据研发的 https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/7181#discussion_r773010144 改了。我把 7147 也改成这样吧

    The parameters used in the command above are described as follows:

    |Parameter              |Description    |
    |-                      |-              |
    |`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster where `dmctl` is to be connected, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
    |`operate-source create`|Loads the data source to the DM cluster.|

### Add a replication task

1. Edit the `task.yaml` file. Configure the incremental replication mode and the starting point of each data source:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```yaml
    name: task-test                      # Task name. Must be globally unique.
    task-mode: incremental               # Task mode. The "incremental" mode only performs incremental data replication.

    # Configures the target TiDB database.
    target-database:                     # The target database instance.
      host: "${host}"                    # e.g.: 127.0.0.1
      port: 4000
      user: "root"
      password: "${password}"            # It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.

    # Use block and allow lists to specify the tables to be replicated.

>     block-allow-list:                    # The collection of filtering rules that matches the tables in the source database instance.

Author: 这个是 @sunzhaoyang 删掉的 https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/7181#discussion_r772898078

      bw-rule-1:                         # The block-allow-list configuration item ID.
        do-dbs: ["${db-name}"]           # Name of databases to be replicated.

    # Configures the data source.
    mysql-instances:
      - source-id: "mysql-01"            # Data source ID，i.e., source-id in source1.yaml
        block-allow-list: "bw-rule-1"    # References the block-allow-list configuration above.

>         # syncer-config-name: "global"    # References the syncers incremental data configuration below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        # syncer-config-name: "global"    # You can use the syncers incremental data configuration below.
```

    Before you start the migration task, to reduce the probability of errors, it is recommended to confirm that the configuration meets the requirements of DM by running the `check-task` command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} check-task task.yaml
    ```

2. Start the migration task by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} start-task task.yaml
    ```

    The parameters used in the command above are described as follows:

    |Parameter              |Description    |
    |-                      |-              |
    |`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster where `dmctl` is to be connected, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
    |`start-task`           |Starts the migration task.|

    If the task fails to start, check the prompt message and fix the configuration. After that, you can re-run the command above to start the task.

>     If you encounter any problem, refer to [DM error handling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/error-handling) and [DM FAQ](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/faq).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    If you encounter any problem, refer to [DM error handling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/error-handling) and [DM FAQ](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/faq).
```

This document describes how to migrate large volumes of data from MySQL to TiDB. The whole migration has two processes:

1. *Full migration*. Use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to perform the full migration. TiDB Lightning's **local backend** mode can import data at a speed of up to 500 GiB/h.
2. *Incremental replication*. After the full migration is completed, you can replicate the incremental data using DM.

## Prerequisites

- [Install DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).
- [Install Dumpling and TiDB Lightning](/migration-tools.md).
- [Grant the source database and target database privileges required for DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro).
- [Grant the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database).
- [Grant the source database privileges required for Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#export-data-from-tidbmysql).

## Resource requirements

> **Operating system**: Examples in this document use new, clean CentOS 7 instances. You can deploy a virtual machine on your own host locally, or on a vendor-provided cloud platform. TiDB Lightning consumes as much CPU resources as needed by default, so it is recommended to deploy TiDB Lightning on a dedicated machine. If you do not have a dedicated machine for TiDB Lightning, you can deploy TiDB Lightning on a shared machine with other components (such as `tikv-server`) and limit TiDB Lightning's CPU usage by configuring `region-concurrency` to 75% of the number of logical CPUs.

Author: ```suggestion
**Operating system**: The example in this document uses fresh CentOS 7 instances. You can deploy a virtual machine either on your local host or in the cloud. Because TiDB Lightning consumes as much CPU resources as needed by default, it is recommended that you deploy it on a dedicated server. If this is not possible, you can deploy it on a single server together with other TiDB components (for example, `tikv-server`) and then configure `region-concurrency` to limit the CPU usage from TiDB Lightning. Usually, you can configure the size to 75% of the logical CPU.
```

> **Memory and CPU**: TiDB Lightning consumes high resources, so it is recommended to allocate more than 64 GB of memory and 32-core CPU for TiDB Lightning. To get the best performance, make sure the CPU core to memory (GB) ratio is more than 1:2.

Author: ```suggestion
**Memory and CPU**: Because TiDB Lightning consumes high resources, it is recommended to allocate more than 64 GiB of memory and more than 32 CPU cores. To get the best performance, make sure that the CPU core to memory (GiB) ratio is greater than 1:2.
```

**Disk space**:

- Dumpling requires enough disk space to store the whole data source. SSD is recommended.
- During the import, TiDB Lightning needs temporary space to store the sorted key-value pairs. The disk space should be enough to hold the largest single table from the data source.
- If the full data volume is large, you can increase the binlog storage time in the upstream. This is to ensure that the binlogs are not lost during the incremental replication.

> **Note**: You cannot calculate the exact data volume exported by Dumpling from MySQL, but you can estimate the data volume by using the following SQL statement to summarize the `data-length` field in the `information_schema.tables` table:

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: It is difficult to calculate the exact data volume exported by Dumpling from MySQL, but you can estimate the data volume by using the following SQL statement to summarize the `data-length` field in the `information_schema.tables` table:
```

    |`-r` or `--row`        |The maximum number of rows in a single file|
    |`-F`                   |The maximum size of a single file, in MiB. Recommended value: 256 MiB.|
    |-`B` or `--database`   |Specifies a database to be exported|
    |`-f` or `--filter`     |Exports tables that match the pattern. Refer to [table-filter](/table-filter.md) for the syntax.|

    Make sure `${data-path}` has enough space to store the exported data. To prevent the export from being interrupted by a large table consuming all the spaces, it is strongly recommended to use the `-F` option to limit the size of a single file.

2. View the `metadata` file in the `${data-path}` directory. This is a Dumpling-generated metadata file. Record the binlog position information, which is required for the incremental replication in Step 3.

    ```
    SHOW MASTER STATUS:
    Log: mysql-bin.000004
    Pos: 109227
    GTID:
    ```

## Step 2. Import full data to TiDB

1. Create the `tidb-lightning.toml` configuration file:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```toml
    [lightning]
    # log.
    level = "info"
    file = "tidb-lightning.log"

    [tikv-importer]

>     # "local": Default backend. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TiB or more). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # "local": Default backend. The local backend is recommended to import large volumes of data (1 TiB or more). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.
```

>     # "tidb": The "tidb" backend is used to import data less than 1 TiB. During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For more information on the backends, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # "tidb": The "tidb" backend is recommended to import data less than 1 TiB. During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For more information on the backends, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.
```

    backend = "local"
    # Sets the temporary storage directory for the sorted Key-Value files. The directory must be empty, and the storage space must be enough to hold the largest single table in the data source. For better import performance, it is recommended to use a directory different from `data-source-dir` and use flash storage, which can use I/O exclusively.
    sorted-kv-dir = "${sorted-kv-dir}"

    [mydumper]

>     # The data source directory. The same directory where Dumpling exports data in Step 1.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # The data source directory. The same directory where Dumpling exports data in "Step 1. Export all data from MySQL".
```

4. After TiDB Lightning completes the import, it exits automatically. If you find the last 5 lines of its log print `the whole procedure completed`, the import is successful.

> **Note:**
>
> Whether the import is successful or not, the last line of the log shows `tidb lightning exit`. It means that TiDB Lightning exits normally, but does not necessarily mean that the import is successful.

If the import fails, refer to [TiDB Lightning FAQ](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md) for troubleshooting.

## Step 3. Replicate incremental data to TiDB

### Add the data source

1. Create a `source1.yaml` file as follows:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    # Must be unique.
    source-id: "mysql-01"

    # Configures whether DM-worker uses the global transaction identifier (GTID) to pull binlogs. To enable this mode, the upstream MySQL must also enable GTID. If the upstream MySQL service is configured to switch master between different nodes automatically, GTID mode is required.
    enable-gtid: true

    from:
      host: "${host}"           # e.g.: 172.16.10.81
      user: "root"

>       password: "${password}"   # Supported but not recommended to use plaintext password. It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      password: "${password}"   # Supported but not recommended to use a plaintext password. It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.
```

      port: 3306
    ```

2. Load the data source configuration to the DM cluster using `tiup dmctl` by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} operate-source create source1.yaml
    ```

    The parameters used in the command above are described as follows:

    |Parameter              |Description    |
    |-                      |-              |

>     |`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster where `dmctl` is to be connected, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    |`--master-addr`        |The `{advertise-addr}` of any DM-master in the cluster where `dmctl` is to be connected, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
```

      password: "${password}"            # It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.

    # Use block and allow lists to specify the tables to be replicated.
    block-allow-list:                    # The collection of filtering rules that matches the tables in the source database instance. If the DM version is earlier than v2.0.0-beta.2, use black-white-list.
      bw-rule-1:                         # The block-allow-list configuration item ID.
        do-dbs: ["${db-name}"]           # Name of databases to be replicated.

    # Configures the data source.
    mysql-instances:
      - source-id: "mysql-01"            # Data source ID，i.e., source-id in source1.yaml
        block-allow-list: "bw-rule-1"    # You can use the block-allow-list configuration above.
        # syncer-config-name: "global"    # You can use the syncers incremental data configuration below.
        meta:                            # When task-mode is "incremental" and the target database does not have a checkpoint, DM uses the binlog position as the starting point. If the target database has a checkpoint, DM uses the checkpoint as the starting point.

>           # binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"  # The binlog position recorded in Step 1. If the upstream database service is configured to switch master between different nodes automatically, GTID mode is required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
          # binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"  # The binlog position recorded in "Step 1. Export all data from MySQL". If the upstream database service is configured to switch master between different nodes automatically, GTID mode is required.
```
